to summarize each of the representations
that we've talked about for graphs
adjacency matrix list of edges and
adjacency lists I produced here this
handy table so let's consider that we
write an add edge method it turns out
that this will be theta 1 for all of
these different representations the
adjacency method that will be theta V
for the adjacency matrix theta e for a
list of edges in constant time for the
adjacency list and these two we just
talked about this is one you'd have to
think about a little more on your own so
this is not obvious but it's if you
think about it the natural answer these
are core pieces of the graph API but we
can also consider other operations we
might add so we might write another
class that tries to for example print
out the graph like this code so print
graph we just showed will be theta V
squared for an adjacency matrix it'd be
V plus C for an adjacency list as I'm
saw in the previous slide and it would
just be theta e for the list of edges
representation likewise we could write
something that says does the graph
possess an edge between s and T so in
this case with an adjacency matrix it'd
be theta 1 we could just go and index
directly into the matrix
assuming that we had access to its
instance variables list of edges we
would actually have to iterate through
all the edges to see if it exists and
with the jason c list if we want to know
if there exists an edge between say 0
and 2 we have to iterate through this
list and if we store it as a list as
opposed to say a binary search tree or
something then in the worst case it
would be theta degree of V in other
words the length of the list in terms of
the amount of space used the amount of
space for an adjacency matrix is V
squared e for list of edges and
adjacency lists will be e + V which is
the same thing by the way as V Plus E
and I may as well just I'm showing it to
you for both because you'll see both
used okay now again one of the big
takeaways here is that this runtime the
state of the + e is a very common idea
and something I want you to get
comfortable with the study guide
questions for this lecture are a great
way to do that because we'll see this
time and time again so in practice if we
look at all this we can get it kind of a
sense of the trade-offs that are
involved and we can see that or all them
say that in practice adjacency lists are
the most common and one of the reasons
is that at least for our graph
implementation because these are the
core operations in the graph so many of
our operations will rely on
this adjacency method here and so that
since its theta one that's part of the
reason why this is super common it's
also nice because it doesn't use a ton
of space and in a sense basically most
graphs are sparse that is there's not
many edges in each bucket it's not gonna
be like for each edge there are in over
ten edges generally it'll be some small
number maybe a constant and so we can
kind of draw inspiration from hash
tables right hash tables have this
interesting property that every single
list is short so we can think of every
operation as constant time and so too
with graphs because graphs tend to be
sparse those bins those buckets those
lists of edges will generally be pretty
short and so this ends up being a much
more efficient representation then
either of these two approaches for
sparse graphs although arguably list of
edges can be faster for some certain
subproblems and so if we want to look at
what does the graph actually look like
were we to sit down and implement it
it'll look a little like this so a graph
has an integer V it is fixed it has a
number of vertices that never changes we
have a list of we have an array of lists
of integers so for each of these lists
our sight for each vertex we have a list
that is all of the adjacent vertices and
when we create a graph this vertex
number V is set it's fixed in stone
forever now here we create our adjacency
lists and then we just go through and
set them all equal to an empty list
that's what this code does
now again you might decide that for your
purposes this V should not be constant
but for simplicity for the sake of a
pure beautiful lecture we're gonna make
that strange step adding edges pretty
simple and this is for an undirected
graph so what we'll do is we'll simply
say okay if we're adding an edge between
0 and 3 let's say we'll make sure that 3
gets added as zeros Jason c-list and
that 0 gets added to 3s adjacency lists
and we're good to go
and then this adjacency method here I
will simply return edge V and then as a
result once we have that code we can
then write code like this and then we'll
print out our graph beautifully
convincing us that we've actually built
a graph so that's it as far as implement
or the basic implementation goes so from
here let's start considering some of
these more challenging problems we might
want to do rather than just listing off
all the edges